# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? I would like a feature that lets you eliminate some bad options if you get on a hot streak, like a powerup. I could see an audio setting that has a bell ringing for a correct choice and buzzer sound for getting a wrong answer. Maybe for difficult mode add a timer, get something correct early in the timer = more points. 

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM? The Document Object Model is the data representation of the objects that make up the structure and content of a web document.

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML? The DOM is different when programming languages such as Javascript are involved in the creation of a web page.

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page? The page default loads in on the difficulty setting "hard" which displays 6 blocks of color to choose from, directly above is the score that displays "0". In the bar above that there are three buttons to choose from; new colors, easy and hard. above that is the title of the page along with the rgb numbers you are trying to match with the color blocks below. The bottom left corner has a link to the skilledkc website. The background color behind the color blocks is black and the background color behind the title of the page is a shade of blue.

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page? The color blocks all turn a shade of purple. The buttons are unresponsive along with the color blocks. The rgb no longer displays numbers just RGB.

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript? Html is responsible for the text, containers for each section and the buttons. css is responsible for default colors on page, style of font, size of buttons and containers and font. javascript is responsible for button interaction, generating new color, updating score, showing name of color when correct color is selected.

    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? Nothing from what I can see.

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? container, score, square, colordisplay, heading, button, message.

    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page? Different elements are highlighted when I click correct or incorrect options. They are also highlighted when I choose to start a new game.

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block? Starting on line 48 the debugger pauses when i click on a color block. the notes say it is comparing the color i picked to the selected winning color.

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? found some lines that say pickedcolor.match and deal with result. The debugger stopped on these series of lines when i would pick the winning color block. One of these lines also had the correlating rgb numbers as the correct color block.

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"? resetButton.addEventListener("click", function(){
	reset(); starting on line 116 it appears to have reset effect on the page. Also on line 96 there is something called resetPressed=true; and it seems to working with an api called generateRandomColors.
})

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change?  in this game it effected the buttons in html and effected the colors of the h1 element in css.

        v.  How does score keeping work? for a correct answer it is +5 and for incorrect choices it is -1. 

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? Because it uses local storage.

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now? When i refresh the page the score goes back to zero.

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes? 

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript? It means Javascript is working immediately without having to wait for anything else in the program.

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? it is requesting a new color name.

        xii.  What does it do? requests a resource from an API

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch? XMLHttpRequest

        xiv.  Why use one over the other? Fetch allows making network requests easier.

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, Deal with Uncertainty, Observation Skills
I think I was mostly drawing from dealing with uncertainty the most. All of this new content is so foreign to me I just kind of had to be ok with being uncomfortable and researching things one by one.
7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript